1:-Kaziranga National Park
Best Time: Oct-Jun
Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Home to the largest population of the one-horned rhino on earth, Kaziranga National Park is one of India’s national treasures in terms of flora and fauna. Located in the state of Assam in North-Eastern India, its total area is shared by the districts of Nagaon, Golaghat and Karbi Anglong placing it roughly at the centre of the state. Approximately around five hours by road from Guwahati, Kaziranga National Park stands tall as the epitome of successful wildlife conservation in India. In 1985, it was awarded the status of a World Heritage Site by UNESCO.

Lying on the floodplains of the mighty river Brahmaputra, rich vegetation covers almost the entirety of Kaziranga National Park. Receiving massive amounts of rainfall each year, at times even crossing dangerous levels, this national park is characterised by tall elephant grass, marshlands and tall tropical broadleaf forests. Here, a wide variety of fauna thrives including the one-horned rhino, Asiatic elephants, wild water buffalo, leopards and Royal Bengal Tigers. Kaziranga National Park is also listed officially as a Tiger reserve and is home to one of the world’s largest population of tigers. 

2:-Majuli
Best Time: Jul-Mar
Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Majuli is a lush green environment-friendly, a pristine and pollution-free freshwater island in the river Brahmaputra, just 20 km from the Jorhat city and located 347 Kms from Guwahati. With a total area of 1250 sq. km, Majuli is the world's largest river island and it attracts tourists from all over the world. Among one of the most surreal places in India, Majuli is also a strong contender for a place in UNESCO's World Heritage Sites. Mostly inhabited by Tribals, the culture of Majuli is unique and quite interesting and is one of the key reasons why people love this place so much. It is also called the cultural capital of Assam. The festivals celebrated here are all joyous and vibrant. The main festival in the town of Majuli is called Raas and it is an exciting and interesting spectacle.

3:-Guwahati
Best Time: Oct-Apr 
Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Famously regarded as the gateway to North-East India, Guwahati is the largest city in the state of Assam. It is also the largest metropolis in the entire North-Eastern region of India, making it the most preferred staging point to other destinations in the region. Sandwiched by the river Brahmaputra on one side and the Shillong Plateau on the other, this city was formerly known as Pragjyotishpura. The name Guwahati is derived from the union of two Assamese words - ‘Guwa’ meaning Areca Nut and ‘Haat’ meaning market.

The capital of the state of Assam, Dispur, is located within Guwahati. Serviced by Lokpriya Gopinath International Airport towards the west and India’s first fully solar-powered railway station at its heart, the city is well connected to other regions of the state and India. Millions of people each year traverse through the city for their livelihood, travels or for religious purposes. Kamakhya Temple, located at the top of the Nilachal Hill and dedicated to Goddess Kamakhya, plays host to thousands of devotees each day. Lakhs of pilgrims and tourists throng to this holy site during the Ambubachi Mela each year. Apart from the Temple of Kamakhya, other sacred temples such as Umananda and Navagraha are also present in the city.

4:-Manas National Park
Best Time: Oct-Apr 
Ideal duration: 1 day
Manas National Park is a UNESCO Natural World Heritage site, a Project Tiger Reserve, an Elephant Reserve and a Biosphere Reserve in Assam. The only tiger reserve in Assam and also famous for the rare golden langur and the red panda, Manas is one of the best-kept national parks in India.

Manas is recognized not only for its rich biodiversity but also for its spectacular scenery and natural landscape which includes a range of forested hills, alluvial grasslands and tropical evergreen forests. It's home to India's second-largest tiger population. It is also famous for its population of the Wild water buffalo. Manas harbours the maximum number of endangered species from India as listed in the IUCN Red Book.

5:-Dibrugarh
Best Time: Oct-Mar
Ideal duration: 1 day
Dibrugarh is the largest city of Assam located 439 km from Guwahati. A major city in the northeastern region of India in line with cities like Guwahati and Bhubaneswar, Dibrugarh is the emerging communication and industrial hub of North East India. Dibrugarh has an airport that is well-connected with major Indian cities.

Deriving its name from the word "Dibrumukha", the name of the river 'Dibru' with the word 'mukh' meaning mouth, Dibrugarh, is a city and is the headquarters of the Dibrugarh district in the state of Assam in India. Dibrugarh is also one of the two main cities in the state of Assam to receive urban development aid from the Asian Development Bank and is the nerve centre of industry, communication and healthcare of the upper Assam region. The city of Dibrugarh is emerging as a popular destination for business and leisure trips for tourists from India and abroad. This city is loaded with nature and culture and is the destination to unwind yourself.

6:-Jorhat
Best Time: Oct-Mar

Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Famous for its culture, mosques, tombs, gardens and most importantly - its tea plantations, Jorhat is a culturally and commercially important city in the state of Assam. The headquarters of Jorhat district, this city is also known as the tea capital of India. It is located at a distance of about 305 Km from Guwahati and around 138 Km from Dibrugarh. 

The beautiful, commercial, cultural and artistic city of Jorhat is the second largest in Assam. Tea plantations are the main agricultural areas around the city which also takes the shape of a tourist attraction given its simple natural charm. There are as many as 135 tea gardens in Jorhat. Apart from the tea plantations, Jorhat is home to other heritage sites and other natural reserves - Thengal Bhawan, Raja Maidam, Gibbon Wildlife Sanctuary and Dhekiakhowa Bornamghar are some of the major places of interest here. The Dhekiakhowa Bornamghar is the oldest and the most famous place of worship in Assam, which attracts a lot of tourists every year. The river island of Majuli, which is the world's largest river island is just 20 km away from this town and it can be accessed by ferries from Nimati Ghat.

7:-Bogamati
Time Required : September-February

Entry Fee : INR 100
Newly discovered Bogamati is a picturesque spot perfect for picnics that lies at the mouth of river ‘Barnadi’ on the foothills on Indo-Bhutan border, in the Baksa district, Assam. Inaugurated by Emanuel Muchahary, MLA of Tumulpur, about six years ago, the unexplored, panoramic view of the mountains creates a serene getaway for travellers, couples and family alike.

‘Bogamati’ refers to a white river in Assamese and derives its name from the vast deposits of white sand and stone in the banks of the river.  The place is inhabited by Bodos, Assamese and Nepalese and is known for its betel plantations and tea gardens. The locals depend exclusively on tourism in the area for their livelihood. The Dawraijhar Eco-Tourism Society is responsible for maintaining the cleanliness of the area and safety of the tourists.




8:-Mayong Assam
Time Required : 5-6 hrs
Mayong, also known as 'the land of black magic', is a cluster of villages situated at a distance of 40 km from Guwahati. The village lies on the banks of the Brahmaputra River in the district of Morigaon in Assam. Mayong is a famous tourist spot and the famous stories of black magic and the magicians of the land make the place all the more enticing to the tourists. The ones who have been to the place say that there is an eerie silence surrounding the place which is completely opposite to the chaotic history associated with it.

Mayong village is surrounded by wildlife due to which the Pobitara Wildlife Sanctuary situated beside the village is a very famous attraction. There are some adventure sports including trekking and river sports organized in the village which is why adventure enthusiasts love to come and pay a visit here. Apart from this, there are some old remains at the place too, and the people who are interested in the history of the place would love witnessing them for real. All in all, the place is a lovely getaway for the tourists as it is a blend of almost everything ranging from secretive magical powers to being a scenic beauty.


9:-Dibru Saikhowa National Park
Best Time: Nov-Apr

Ideal duration: 1 day
Dibru Saikhowa National Park is one of those places which boast of a rich collection of flora and fauna, many of them endangered. It is one of the few remaining protected sites in the Endemic Bird Area of the Assamese Plains.

Dibru Saikhowa National Park is a river island national park and one of the 19 biodiversity hotspots in the world. This National Park is situated 12 km north of Tinsukia in Assam. Of the seven parts of the park, one is a wetland and the rest is mainly covered with grasslands and dense forest. Animal life to be viewed in their natural habitat includes royal Bengal tiger, hoolock gibbons and leopards, it is also home to some restricted-range species, such as the White-winged Wood Duck, Bengal Florican, Lesser Adjutant Stork, spotted-billed Pelican, White-bellied Heron, Pallas's Fish Eagle, Swamp Partridge, Jerdon's Babbler, Black-breasted Parrotbill and Striated Grassbird. Marsh Babbler, Swamp Prinia and Yellow Weaver.





