1:-Calangute Beach
Best Time to Visit : After monsoon to enjoy the water sports
Water Sports Cost (Approx) : Jet Ski: INR 300 for a ride without a professional rider along
Banana Ride: INR 450 per person
Parasailing: INR 1000 (including boating+parachute)
Situated 15 km from Panjim, Calangute Beach is the longest beach in North Goa, stretching from Candolim to Baga. Due to its sheer size and popularity, it is a hub for tourists and backpackers from all over the world.

Popular as the "Queen of Beaches", the Calangute Beach of Goa is among the top ten bathing beaches in the world. Being one of the busiest and most commercial beaches of Goa, it is swarming with eating joints, shacks and clubs serving cocktails, beer and seafood. The Calangute Beach is also known for its water sports activities like parasailing, water surfing, banana ride and jet-skiing.

While the days here are filled with beach fun, nights call for upbeat parties and letting your hair down. Calangute is also popular for staying in Goa as it keeps you well-connected to the other beaches in the north such as Baga, Anjuna, Candolim, Aguada and many more.

2:-Fort Aguada
Timings : 9:30 AM - 6:00 PM
Fort Aguada is a 17th-century Portuguese fort looking out at the confluence of Mandovi River and the Arabian Sea. The crumbling ramparts of the fort stand on the Sinquerim Beach, approximately 18 km from Panjim. The highlight of the fort is a lone four-storey lighthouse (which is one-of-its-kind in Asia )and a stunning view of the sunset.

Built-in 1612 as a protection from Dutch and Marathas, Fort Aguada was the most prized and crucial fort for the Portuguese and covers the entire peninsula at the southwestern tip of Bardez. The fort is so named after the Portuguese Word for water i.e. 'Agua' and used to be a replenishing source of freshwater for sailors. In fact, it has the capacity to hold 2,376,000 gallons of water and was one of the biggest freshwater reservoirs of Asia.

Fort Aguada has also been used as Aguada jail. A statue in front of the jail salutes the freedom fighters, giving the fort a touch of patriotism.

3:-Dudhsagar Falls
Time Required : 6 - 7 Hours to Trek

Entry Fee : Entry Fee: Nominal Charge INR 20
Still Camera: INR 300
Professional Camera: INR 5000
Jeep Charges: INR 150 per person
One of India's tallest waterfalls, the Dudhsagar Falls is located inside the Mollem National Park. The majestic falls are a little farther inland approximately 60 km from Panaji on the Goa - Karnataka Border. Literally translating to Sea of Milk , the 310 m high waterfall is divided into four tiers on the Mandovi river and resemble a heavy rush of milk flowing effortlessly down the hill.

While most people arrive at the Dudhsagar falls by jeep or by their own private transport from Panaji and nearby areas, others choose to visit the falls through a train journey or by trekking. The famous Dudhsagar Railway trek is closed to the public but the trek to the lower falls is still open.

The Dudhsagar falls should be visited during the monsoon when it is in full flow and the surrounding deciduous forests are at their verdant best. However, reaching the falls during monsoon if difficult and it is closed if the water level gets too high.

4:-Anjuna Beach
Located near Panjim at a distance of 21 km, Anjuna Beach is among the most popular beaches in North Goa, stretching almost 2km. A hippie paradise of sorts it is characterized by its rocky outcrops. From family outings to adrenaline-filled adventures, Anjuna Beach is famed for its golden coastline, nightclubs, beach shacks, watersports, full-moon parties and flea markets.

Come and rock the night way at Curlies, or dance to some techno at Cafe Lilliput. During the day you can sample some delicious culinary goodness at Burger Factory, Baba Au Rhum, or Basilico. Known as the jewel of Ozran, Anjuna became a favourite haunt for the hippies in the swingin' 60s and still retains the same vibe to this day. You are sure to meet an eclectic bunch of tourists from all over the world when you are here! Anjuna's charm makes it a favourite among both long-stayers and first-timers.


5:-Chapora Fort
Timings : 9:30 AM - 5:30 PM every day

Time Required : 1-2 hours
Chapora Fort, located 10 km away from Mapusa, is undeniably one of the most famous forts in Goa. Built by the Portuguese in 1717, Chapora Fort has a long and fascinating history attached to it. More popularly known as the 'Dil Chahta Hai Fort', its claim to fame was the 2001 Bollywood blockbuster shot here. A scintillating escape, it offers beautiful views of the sea and Chapora River.

The fortifications around the current location of Chapora Fort existed long before the Portuguese even landed in Goa. It was originally built by Muslim ruler Adil Shah and was called Shahpura. The fort was later reconstructed by the Portuguese who named it Chapora, after the Chapora River that flows right alongside it. The highlight of the fort is the breathtaking view of the adjoining Vagator beach overlooking the Arabian Sea, especially at sunset. However, reaching the top of the now-ruined fort requires a steep 10-minute climb.

Chapora Fort has passed through the possession of numerous rulers over a long period of time, right from the Portuguese to the Marathas and the ruins tell a story of their own! You can still see the entry points of the two tunnels that were built by the Portuguese to use as an escape in times of emergency.

6:-Baga Beach
Sun Bed Charges : Around INR 200
One of the most popular beaches in North Goa, Baga Beach is located close to Calangute beach, around 30 Km North of Panjim. Baga is the perfect destination to witness the dazzling nightlife of Goa as signature places such as Britto's, Tito's and Mambos are located in the vicinity. Being one of the most visited beaches in the North, Baga also offers a vast range of water sports.

Baga is so named after the 'Baga creek' which flows into the Arabian Sea. It is also famous for its designer stores as well as its street-side markets. While at Baga, grab a sumptuous breakfast at Infantaria - a highly recommended eatery, relax by the beach all day, and in the evening let the party animal in you come alive. Baga Beach is considered to be the extension of Calangute Beach itself since both of these lies on the same stretch of the shore. 

Lined with an array of tattoo parlours, tarot shops, palmistry shops, spas, sun decks and some legendary shacks, it gives you a chance to live out your perfect beach holiday. If you are not a party person, you also have the option of starting your mornings with some beach Yoga, having a nutritious breakfast by the sea, and then just spend the day reading quietly on beach recliner. There is something for every kind of traveller in Baga!

7:-Cruise in Goa
Time Required : 1-5 hours
Cruise in Goa allows one to explore the exotic scenery, pristine waters and marvel the breathtaking view of the sunset. There are several types of cruises in Goa ranging from simple evening cruises, elaborate and romantic dinner cruises, backwater cruises, and casino cruises. All of these usually originate from Miramar Beach in Panjim.

Several Goa cruises also offer dinner options along with guaranteed fun and entertainment activities are carried through the day depending upon the daytime, sunset and moonlight. Booking a cruise getaway in Goa is fairly simple as a number of them also offer online booking options. Depending on your requirements and time that you want to spend on the boats, you can choose a package that suits you the best.



8:-Butterfly Beach
Timings : 6:00 AM - 10:00 PM

Time Required : 1-2 hrs
A little to the south of Palolem in Cancona region of Goa lies the Butterfly Beach. This beach, also known as Honeymoon Beach, is in the form of a small cove surrounded by dense trees. One of the most secluded and lesser-known beach of Goa, the butterfly beach is mostly accessible by a boat (ferry) ride from the nearby beaches, which only adds to the charm.

Vehicles do not lead directly to Butterfly Beach and reaching here through land involves a challenging forest hike. However, this also makes for a wonderful opportunity to go trekking through a forest! Interestingly, Butterfly Beach is so named as the surrounding trees attract a wide variety of butterflies occasionally. It may also be because the beach itself is in the shape of a butterfly! Either way, it is just as pretty as one, especially during sunsets. 

Enclosed by a thick forest on one side and leading to the open sea on the other, the beach has a unique and picturesque landscape. Butterfly Beach is also one of the few places in Goa to sight the playful dolphins. Avoid visiting the beach during the monsoon as the boat rides are mostly unavailable during heavy rainfall.




