1:-Gurgaon
Best Time: Oct-Mar 
deal duration: 1-2 days
Once little more than a dull and comparatively unknown suburb of the national capital region, today, Gurgaon is not only one of the most urbanised cities of India, but it also boasts of a skyline that can easily rival those of Hong Kong and Singapore. Easily accessible from Delhi and Noida, Gurgaon is fast becoming a popular travel destination among holidaymakers. Starting from natural treasures to a flourishing lifestyle and a vibrant nightlife, Gurgaon has everything you could need.

2:-Kurukshetra
Best Time: Jul-Mar
Ideal duration: 1 day
A city in the state of Haryana, Kurukshetra, also known as Dharmakshetra is known as the "Land of the Bhagavad Gita". Situated 170 km north to Delhi, the place is famous for the battle between the Kauvaras and the Pandavas in the Hindu epic, Mahabharata. It is the place where Lord Krishna is said to have recited the Bhagavad Gita to Arjuna. 

3:-Panchkula
Best Time: Oct-Apr
Ideal duration: 2 days
One of the most planned towns of Haryana, Panchkula is a satellite town that forms the tricity with Chandigarh and Mohali. Ruled by the Chandels from 9th-12th Century, this hill-city derives its name from the five irrigation canals or 'kuls' which draw water from the uphill Ghagghar. Sector 5 in Panchkula is popular for its variety of entertainment and eating out options. It even has an open-air amphitheatre and the Terminals Ballistic Research Laboratory of the DRDO. Panchkula is also a place which is used as a

4:-Faridabad
Best Time: Sep-Dec, Feb-mar 
Ideal duration: 1 day
Faridabad is Haryana's largest city and its major industrial hub as well. Faridabad is the main part of district Faridabad which has two divisions - Faridabad and Ballabgarh. The city shares borders with New Delhi on its north, Gurgaon to its west and Uttar Pradesh on its south west ends.

5:-Panipat
Best Time: Oct-Mar 
Ideal duration: 1 day
Located at a distance of 90 km from Delhi, Panipat is known for the three historical battles that were fought here. Innumerable monument, forts, temples and its magnificent historical connections make Panipat in Haryana an interesting tourist destination. Also known as 'City of Weavers', and 'Textile City', this is an important city for textile production.

Panipat was one of the five cities (prasthas) founded by Pandava brothers during the times of Mahabharata. The ruins of the Old Fort belonging to the Islamicate rule, the Kabuli Shah Mosque, Ibrahim Lodhi's grave and the tomb of Bu Ali Shah Kalandar is sure to bring out the archaeologist in you and leave you with enlightened with some overwhelming historical magnificence.

6:-Narnaul
Best Time: Oct-Mar
Ideal duration: 1 day
The historic town of Narnaul in Mahendergarh district of Haryana claims to be one of the important seats of the Dwapar yuga of Mahabharata.

Claiming a hybrid architectural influences of Mughals, Rajputs, Persians and the British, Narnaul is famous for its many tombs and historical sites that date back to the Mughal and Rajput era, followed by the rule of Prince of Jaipur and Patiala. Also famous as Birbal's birthplace who was one of the Ministers or Navratnas in Akbar's Court, Narnaul is the birthplace of Sher Shah Suri, the Afghan king who shook the foundations of the Mughal dynasty. The famous Ayurvedic blend, Chyavanprasha was first made in Doshi, a sacred hill just 8 km away from this town.

7:-Karnal
Best Time: October - March 
Karnal, a city in the Indian state of Haryana, boasts of a history reaching into the period of the Mahabharata. Nestled in the banks of the sacred Yamuna River, Karnal today is popularly called the ‘Rice Bowl of India’ for its vast rice fields.

Located in the National Capital Region, Karnal has limited tourist attractions to see, the most popular of which is Karna Lake. It is believed that it was here that the mythological hero Karna, after whom the city is named, gave alms to the poor. Karnal is home to some world-class institutes of research and development like the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) and Directorate of Wheat Research (DWR). The best way to explore this town is to take a leisurely walk, gorging on the local food.

