1:-Gulmarg(4.6)
Best Time: Oct-Jun
Gulmarg is a popular skiing destination located in Pir Panjal Range of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Surrounded by snow-covered lofty Himalayas, meadows of flowers, deep ravines, evergreen forested valleys


2:-Srinagar (4.5)
Best Time: April - October
*capital of Jammu and Kashmir
Srinagar makes for an excellent holiday destination owing to its picturesque landscape featuring lush green gardens, lakes and shikaras

3:-Vaishno Devi (4.4)
Best Time: Throughout the year 
Located in Trikuta hills, 13 kms from Katra (in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir); this renowned shrine allures millions of devotees from all over the world.  Popularly known as Mata Rani, Vaishnavi and Trikuta, Vaishno Devi is a manifestation of the Hindu Goddess Durga

4:-Sonamarg
Best Time: April - August
Sonamarg is a picturesque hill station in Jammu and Kashmir, located 80km north-east of Srinagar. At an elevation of around 2,730 metres above sea level, Sonamarg is known for its snow-laden fields, surrounded by majestic glaciers and serene lakes which casts subtle spells on the travellers.

5:-Pahalgam
Best Time: Throughout the year
Situated in the Anantnag district, about 90km away from Srinagar, Pahalgam is a beautiful hill station and a popular tourist attraction of Jammu & Kashmir. Pahalgam is located on the banks of the Liddar River, and the rugged terrains, green meadows, and snow-capped mountains make it a perfect spot for adventure enthusiasts

6:-Aru Valley
Best Time to Visit : Sightseeing - July to September
Skiing - December to February
Juxtaposed against the snow-covered Himalayan peaks, Aru Valley is an enthralling village in Kashmir. Located around 11 km from Pahalgam, it is the base camp for trekking to the Kolhoi Glacier and the Tarsar-Marsar Lake. Aru lies beside the Aru river, a tributary of the Lidder river, and is known for its scenic meadows and activities like horse riding, hiking and trekking.

7:-Anantnag
Best Time: May-Oct 
Anantnag is one of the most beautiful cities in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, with gushing streams and sights and sounds that make Kashmir the heaven that it truly is. Located at a distance of 53 km from Srinagar, Anantnag is regarded as the commercial and financial capital of the Kashmir valley. 

8:-Amarnath
Best Time: May-Sep
Amarnath, located in union territory of Jammu and Kashmir is one of the most important pilgrimage in India for the worshippers of Lord Shiva. The Amarnath cave has an enshrined Shivaling formed naturally with ice, which resembles Lord Shiva.

9:-Kishtwar National Park
Best Time: Throughout the year
Kishtwar is on a plateau above chenab river and below the nagin sheer glacier, the area has saffron growth in a limited time and its harvesting is accompanied by ceremonies and festivals, this is typically during summer. Spread over an area of 400 sq.km the park contains 15 mammal species including the musk deer and Himalayan black and brown bear. Even though Kishtwar is not the only high altitude wildlife sanctuary, it is made special because of its large variety of flora and fauna.

10:-Bhaderwah
Best Time: October - February 
Bhaderwah is a town located in the district of Doda in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Located in the foothills of the Himalayas, it has been given the status of sub-district.  A thrilling horse ride can be enjoyed around the valleys to have a look around the beautiful landscape. Skiing can be enjoyed on the slopes of the snow-filled mountains.

11:-Jammu
Best Time: Sep-Mar
Jammu is the southernmost-part of the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir which sits proudly on the magnificent Shivalik mountain ranges. The Winter Capital of Kashmir, Jammu is a holy and peaceful city known for its majestic temples, religious shrines, glittering "shikhars", and cultural heritage. Since it is also the starting point to the hugely popular Vaishno Devi Temple and Amarnath Yatra, it is visited by tourists from far and wide.
