1:-Deoghar
Best Time: Jul-Mar
Ideal duration: 1 day
Deoghar, a popular religious destination in Jharkhand is blessed with one of the 12 Jyotirlinga temples known as temple Baidyanath.

Baidyanath Dham in Deoghar becomes the most famous during the Shravan month of the Hindu Lunar Calendar, when millions of devotees bring holy water for the Linga in Pitchers called Kanwads, and hence known as Kanwariyas, to perform the holy ritual of Rudrabhishek [The Holy Bath] in this holy month. Deoghar is also known as 'the cultural capital of Jharkhand'.

2:-Jamshedpur
Best Time: November-February
Ideal duration: 1 day
The largest city in Jharkhand, Jamshedpur is an aesthetically planned township with an appealing infrastructure and landscape. Juxtaposed against the beautiful Dalma Hills, Jamshedpur is the world's eighth-largest steel manufacturing company, along with being India's first planned city.

The town of Jamshedpur was named after Jamshetiji Tata in 1919, the founder of the Tata industries that maintain public services and infrastructure of most parts of the city. Known as the 'Steel City', Jamshedpur is the quintessential example of the boon of industrialisation in a developing nation. Being the largest city in Jharkhand, the main attractions in Jamshedpur are the vast, tree-lined Jubilee Park (housing Tata Zoological Park with species like tigers and leopards), the hill-top Bhuvaneshwari Temple, and the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary (home to resident elephants).

With its industrial growth, Jamshedpur has made its place in the map of world business along with playing a very important role in industrialising India. The founders day of Jamshedpur is celebrated on October 3 every year at Jubilee Park, which is decked up with lights and colours for the occasion.

3:-Ranchi
Best Time: Jul-Mar
Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Ranchi is the capital of mineral-rich state Jharkhand. Located at an altitude of 700 metres, Ranchi was once identified as the summer capital of Bihar owing to its altitude of 700 metres, waterfalls, surrounding forest and beautiful river Subarnekha flowing by. There are not many sightseeing spots in Ranchi, but due to better flight connectivity, natural surroundings of Ranchi are becoming popular among travellers. The weather here remains pleasant during evenings and night.

The city takes immense pride in accounting for the 40 per cent of the country’s total mineral reserves. The most popular places in this city include Ranchi Hill, Kanke Dam, Tagore hill and Hudru falls, Hatia Museum and Tribal Research Institute and Museum. The city has a wide variety of trees and wildlife, Maugha, Sal and Simul are some of the rare types of trees found here.



4:-Betla National Park
Timings : 5:00 AM - 7:00 PM

Time Required : 1 day

Entry Fee : Indians: INR 10,
Foreigners: INR 200
Betla National Park is a beautiful national park which is spread over the hilly terrain of the attractive Palamau district, west of Ranchi In Jharkhand. Wild elephants wander without restraints in the thickets of the forest and the flora and fauna are enough to mesmerize any visitor. Though there are relatively fewer tigers here, a visit to this ancient area of Jharkhand will be worth it because it provides a deeper insight into the rich tribal heritage of the state. Betla stands as an acronym for Bison, Elephant, Tiger, Leopard and Axis. What makes this park stand out from the rest is the presence of two forts inside its premises. The primary attractions here is observing wildlife from a close range. 

One of the most popular national parks of the North East, the park stretches over an area of around 979 sq. km, out of which 232 sq. km forms the main area and has the status of being one of the first 9 tiger reserves that were established in India. Due to a diversified ecosystem, the Betla National Park is home to a huge variety of wildlife. The park houses luxuriant sal and bamboo trees. The Southern side of the forest is dominated by Sal trees whereas the Bel Aegle marmelos dominate the northern part of the forest reserve. The surging terrains of the park are marked by small hills like the Netarhat, Huluk, Murhu and Gulgul. Several waterfalls and hot water springs found inside the park make it an interesting place to explore. 


5:-Shikharji
Located on the Parasnath Hill, the highest mountain in the state of Jharkhand, in an inland part of rural east India, of the Giridih district of Jharkhand, Shikharji is one of the holiest pilgrimage sites for Jains. It is believed that here is where twenty of the twenty-four Jain Tirthankaras had attained moksha (in other words, freedom from the cycle of rebirth), along with several other monks which makes it one of the most important and holy sites for Jain Tirthas. Shikharji rises to a height of 1,350 m thus making it the highest mountain in the state.



6:-Netarhat
Best Time: Throughout the year
Ideal duration: 1 day
Falling in the Latehar district of Jharkhand, Netarhat is the highest point of Chotanagpur plateau, popularly known as Queen of Chotanagpur. It is best known for the sunrise and sunset views it offers, especially during summers. When travelling by road from Ranchi to Netarhat, you will cross seven hills on your way and a little more than 96 miles.

Netarhat comes under the tag of lesser-known tourist places. Netarhat is around 156 km to the west of Ranchi and 210 km from Daltonganj. It is also notable for the renowned Netarhat Residential School which was started in the year 1954. Essentials like medicines are a must-carry as there is a low probability of chemist shops being present nearby.