1:-Munnar
Best Time: September - March
Ideal duration: 2-3 days
Famous for the tea estates, greenery, winding roads, blanket of mist, and viewpoints, Munnar is a hill station in Kerala, located in the Idukki district. Lying in the Western Ghats at 1600 metres, it is one of the most sought after and visited travel destinations globally, especially popular amongst honeymooners.

Once the summer resort of the erstwhile British government, the main reason to visit Munnar is to explore the sprawling tea plantations and the exotic flora and fauna. The Eravikulam National Park, Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary and tea plantations are its major attractions. Munnar is also famous for being home to the rare Neelakurinji flowers that bloom once in 12 years (the next bloom is in 2030) and the endangered Nilgiri Tahr.




2:-Alleppey
Best Time: Oct - February
Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Officially called Alappuzha, Alleppey is known for its network of canals and lagoons with beautiful backwaters and the houseboats offering overnight stays. Located in the southern part of Kerala, the coastline of Alleppey offers some of the best beaches with water sports during the dry season. Coupled with other beautiful places in Kerala like Munnar and Thekkady, Alleppey is often considered for a honeymoon or for a great family vacation. 

Alleppey's palm-fringed inter-connect network of canal backwaters attracts a lot of tourists from all over the world. Kuttanad, also called the 'Rice Bowl of Kerala' covers a large part of Allapuzha and is home to lush green paddy fields, lakes and backwaters. 




3:-Kochi
Best Time: Jul-Apr
Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Lying on the Malabar coast in the southwest of India, Kochi or Cochin is a port city with a trading history that dates back to at least 600 years. Known popularly as the Queen of the Arabian Sea, the city is also Kerala's financial, commercial, and industrial capital. Exuding an old-world charm with diverse linguistics, such as the Jews, Konkinis, Gujaratis, and ethnic communities like the anglo-indians, Kochi has an indiscriminate mix of backwaters, beaches, islands, coasts, and plain terrains.

With a history of trading in the southwest, Kochi still holds on to its dutch and Portuguese buildings, such as the Old Harbour House, Mattancherry Palace, Bolgatty Palace , Jewish Synagogue, etc., some of which have gone through renovations over the years. The cosmopolitan town has upmarket stores, art galleries, heritage homes, and some of the finest museums, such as the Hill Palace and Kerala Folklore Museum.

4:-Wayanad
Best Time: October - May
Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Replete with waterfalls, historical caves, comfortable resorts and homestays, Wayanad in Kerala is famous for its spice plantations and wildlife. Walking through the sprawling spice plantations, trekking to the pre-historic caves and experiencing a resort holiday are one of the many things you can do to get a taste of Wayanad.

Wayanad is best known for the wildlife reserves - Wayanad wildlife reserve which is home to an exquisite variety of flora and fauna. Wayanad wildlife reserve is an integral part of the Nilgiri biosphere reserve peacefully located amidst the serene hills of Western Ghats. Wayanad homes a wide variety of wildlife like elephants, leopards, and bears. Wayanad is a perfect weekend idea from the cities of South India. If taking a road trip from Bangalore, you will drive through three national parks: Nagarhole, Bandipur and Mudumalai.

5:-Varkala
Best Time: Throughout the year 

Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Varkala is a coastal town in the southern part of Kerala known for the unique 15m high 'Northern Cliff' adjacent to the Arabian Sea. It is popular for its hippie culture, shacks on the cliff serving great seafood and playing global music and the samadhi of Kerala's saint Sree Narayana Guru. Varkala is also known for Jardana Swami Temple, also known as Dakshin Kashi.

Varkala has some of the best pristine beaches, hills, lakes, forts, lighthouses, natural fisheries and springs - all of this together makes this town a little paradise. You will also find a lot of shops with signboards in Hebrew selling Yoga mats, oxidised silver jewellery and harem pants made of cotton. Ayurvedic spas, affordable resorts, hostels, clean beaches make it a must-visit city of Kerala.

6:-Kumarakom
Best Time: Sep-Mar
Ideal duration: 1-2 days
With emerald green waters flanked by lush vegetation, Kumarakom is an enchanting backwater destination situated 16km away from Kottayam in Kerala. Lying on the banks of Vembanad Lake, Kerala's largest lake, Kumarakom is a cluster of small human-made islands reclaimed from the lake.

Known for paddy fields, fishing, beach, a network of backwaters, delicious local cuisine, traditional Kettuvalloms (rice barges) houseboats and luxury and budget resorts. The Kumarakom bird sanctuary here, which is spread across 14 acres, is a favourite haunt of migratory birds and an ornithologist's paradise. Take a two-hour canoeing trip during the sunrise or sunset to experience the beauty of this place. Kumarkom is the first destination to implement responsible tourism.

7:-Poovar
Best Time: Aug-Mar

Ideal duration: 1 day
Poovar is a small rustic town situated 27 kms from Thiruvananthapuram with unspoilt, unexplored golden sand beaches and beautiful backwaters of Kerala.

Also known as a fishing village, the tranquil Poovar island lies between the Arabian Sea and the Neyyar River. Hiring a boat, (especially during the sunset)that will take you through the mangrove forest of backwaters is a must-do activity. The boat ride costs around INR 3000- INR 4000. The town has some of the beautiful resorts and hotels that are known for the hospitality they offer.

Poovar beach is secluded and is only accessible by a boat. Swimming is allowed here throughout the year except for the monsoon months

8:-Idukki
Best Time: Throughout the year 
Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Idukki, a landlocked district of Kerala, is one of the most nature-rich areas in Kerala with more than half of the area covered with forest. This rugged hill resort is known for its wildlife sanctuaries, beautiful bungalows, tea factories, rubber plantations and forests.

Idukki's speciality lies in 650 feet long and 550 feet high arch dam across the Kuravan Kurathi mountain, which is the largest in the country. Anamudi, which is the highest peak in India, south of the Himalayas, is also located in Idukki. Idukki is one of the districts in the state that has abundant scope for promotion of eco-tourism if proper infrastructure and promotional activities are provided.





