1:-Ajanta and Ellora Caves
Best Time: Jun-Mar 
Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Ajanta and Ellora caves, considered to be one of the finest examples of ancient rock-cut caves, are located near Aurangabad in Maharashtra, India. Ajanta and Ellora caves complex is adorned with beautiful sculptures, paintings, and frescoes and include Buddhist monasteries, Hindu and Jain temples. The Ajanta caves are 29 in number and were built between the 2nd century BC and 6th century AD, whereas the Ellora Caves are more spread out and 34 in number and dates to the period between 6th and 11th Century AD.

Ajanta and Ellora caves are designated as UNESCO World Heritage Sites and are quite popular among travelers worldwide. Ajanta Caves, located around 99km north of Aurangabad, are mostly Buddhist sites and were used as a retreat by Buddhist Monks. Ellora is just 15 km west of Aurangabad and has a better mix of Hindu, Jain, and Buddhist sites. These hand-carved caves were built and sponsored by the Indian rulers of those periods and almost buried by thick forests. One of the most famous places in the entire Ajanta and Ellora Caves is the Kailash Temple, which is also the single most massive monolithic structure globally. These rock-cut caves containing carvings are some of the best examples of ancient Indian architecture and sculpture.

2:-Mahabaleshwar
Best Time: December - February

Ideal duration: 2 days
Mahabaleshwar is a hill station located in the Western Ghats, in Satara district of Maharashtra. Apart from its strawberries, Mahabaleshwar is also well known for its numerous rivers, magnificent cascades and majestic peaks. It is among the most sought after weekend getaways from Pune & Mumbai, located about 120km south-west of Pune and 285km from Mumbai.

Mahabaleshwar is also a sacred pilgrimage place for Hindus as the Krishna river originates from here. Once a summer capital of the British, the hill station of Mahabaleshwar comprises of ancient temples, boarding schools, manicured and lush green dense forest, waterfalls, hills, valleys. It is often used as a base to visit the magnificent Pratapgad Fort, located an hour away.

Malcolm Peth, Old Kshetra Mahabaleshwar and a region of the Shindola village are the three villages that make up Mahabaleshwar.



3:-Panchgani
Best Time: Sep-May

Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Deriving its name from the five hills surrounding it, Panchgani is a popular hill station near Mahabaleshwar in Maharashtra, famous for its various sunset and sunrise points and scenic valley view.

Located at an altitude of 1,334 mts, Panchgani is also known as Paachgani as the five hills that form the Sahyadri mountain ranges offer Panchgani its name. The picturesque backdrop of hills on one side and coastal plains on the other makes for an amazing view. In the British era, the place was treated as a summer resort and hence many colonial period establishments can be seen here. Mahabaleshwar is like a twin city to Panchgani.

Other than the verdant green valleys, and soothing environment, the red, juicy strawberries are a major attraction of Panchgani. Rightly known as the ‘Strawberry Garden of India’, the farms of Panchgani are full of enchanting views of luscious berries, especially during February and March.


4:-Shirdi
Best Time: Jul-mar
Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Located at a distance of 122 Km from Nasik in the Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra, Shirdi is the home of Sai Baba. It is believed that Sai Baba arrived at Shirdi in 1858 and spent 60 years of his life here until he attained salvation in 1918. Sai Baba is popularly known as the 'child of God', as he always spread the message of universal brotherhood.

Apart from his shrine, there are many small temples in the complex, such as Chavadi, Samadhi Mandir, Dwarkamai. Shani Shignapur is located at a distance of 72km from Shirdi.

5:-Bhandardara
Best Time: Jun-Mar
Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Bhandardara, a hill station nestled in the Sahyadri ranges of Maharashtra, has all the nature's blessings a place can get. The lush greenery, the humble waterfalls and surrounded by high mountains makes for the perfect holiday spot for city dwellers.

Situated in the Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra, Bhandardara is 117 km. from Mumbai and is easily accessible through roadways. This little village is packed with so many attractions coupled with the serenity of the nature that it makes for an adventurous weekend to run away from the hustle and bustle of the cities.



6:-Mumbai
Best Time: October - February
Ideal duration: 3-5 days
Mumbai, the capital city of the Indian state of Maharashtra, is a spectacular paradox of chaos and hope, glamour and squalor, modernity and tradition. Famously known as the City of Dreams, Mumbai – formerly known as Bombay - Mumbai is a beautifully blended melting pot of cultures and lifestyles.

The city soaks in everything into its fabric, making it its very own. From upcoming actors struggling to make it big on the silver screen; from Bolly superstars to big industrialists to tribes of fisherman and slum dwellers, Mumbai is a city that proudly boasts of stories from different walks of human survival.

One of the main centres in the country of art, culture, music, dance and theatre, Mumbai is a dynamic, cosmopolitan city that has been running for years solely on the indomitable spirit of the Mumbaikars.



7:-Rajmachi
Best Time: June to September
Ideal duration: 1 day
Rajmachi is a small village situated in the Sahyadri mountain range of the Konkan region of Maharashtra. Rajmachi is famous for the historical fortress which has two fortified peaks - Shrivardhan and Manaranjan forts, located near two famous hills of Lonavala and Khandala.

8:-Lonavala
Best Time: Throughout the year 
Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Situated in the Sahyadri range of the Western Ghats close to Pune and Mumbai, Lonavala is the most visited hill station in Maharashtra and the place to be during monsoons. With lots of waterfalls, lakes and hills around, it is a popular destination for camping, trekking and other adventure sports.

Surrounded by dense forests, waterfalls, and dam alongside lakes, it is a must-visit if you admire nature. Located at an elevation of 624 m above sea level, Lonavala is one of

9:-Tarkarli
Best Time: October to March
Tarkarli is famous for its long and narrow stretch of beach, with its pristine water, white sand, and of course Singhudurg, Maharashtra's popular sea fort.

10:-Nashik
Best Time: July to March
Nasik is a religious Hindu city, host to the Kumbh Mela every 12 years. It also makes for a perfect wine tasting destination.

11:-Aurangabad
Best Time: October to March
Aurangabad, which was declared by the Government as the Tourism Capital of Maharashtra back in 2010, is a famous tourist hub which greets its visitors with a richly woven tapestry of sights and sounds.

12:-Pune
Best Time: July to March


Pune is a bustling metropolis of Maharashtra, ranked number one in India in the ease of living. Often referred to as the Oxford of the East, it is a hub of diverse people and activities and is in rapidly growing into one of the top metropolitan cities in the country

13:-Raigad
Best Time: November to March
Raigad, is a historically rich district is situated in the Konkan region of Maharashtra. Located at 2,851mts, it is surrounded by Mumbai Harbour, Thane, Pune, Ratnagiri and the Arabian Sea.

14:-Tadoba National Park
Best Time: October to March
Famous for its natural heritage, Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve is definitely one of India's most exciting and best protected Tiger Reserve, with most visible tiger sightings in the state of Maharashtra

15:-Nagpur
Best Time: October to March
Commonly associated with its delectable juicy varieties of oranges, Nagpur is also the winter capital of Maharashtra. With temples, lush green gardens, lakes and connectivity with main cities along with the rich cultural heritage enchant its visitors.

16:-Kolhapur
Best Time: July to February
Kolhapur is situated on the banks of the river Panchaganga in the south-west region of Maharashtra.  Situated 230 kilometres away from Pune, Kolhapur is one of the princely states and boasts of a rich legacy dating back to the times of the Marathas.

17:-Igatpuri
Best Time: July to September
Igatpuri is a hill station and a city in the Western Ghats located in the Nashik district of Maharashtra, 130kms from Mumbai. Located on the Mumbai-Agra National Highway, Igatpuri is a heaven for nature lovers. It also has some of the highest peaks of the Sahyadri range. 


18:-Chiplun
Best Time: July to February
In the quiet, far away from the city port district of Ratnagiri in Maharashtra, lies Chiplun, the city that offers you time among mango groves next to the beautiful lake, Vashishti. This town is most known for its white sand beaches and beautiful mango and cashew groves by the Vashishti river.
