1:-Aizawl
Best Time: Throughout the year
Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Lying at a height of 1132 m above sea level, Aizawl is a quaint city and the capital of the state of Mizoram in northeast India. Primarily dominated by the Mizo Tribe, Aizawl and its surrounding areas are lush with rolling hills and abundant greenery. The city, along with the majority of the state is known for its agricultural produce and ethnic handicrafts and apparel. Aizawl is well connected via roads and air connectivity to other major hubs of northeast India such as Silchar and Guwahati in Assam. An important thing to note is that an Inner Line Pass or ILP is required for entry into Mizoram which is available on Guwahati, Silchar, Shillong, New Delhi and Kolkata.

Among one of the oldest cities in the north eastern region of India, Aizawl, pronounced eye-zole, is a perfect place to relax while enjoying the local food and culture. Home to the Mizoram State Museum and few other tourist complexes, tourists have few options to enjoy a sightseeing tour in the city. Apart from these, one can take a tour to the nearby hilly areas of Hmuifang, Tamdil Lake and Chanmari.

2:-Serchhip
Best Time: Throughout the year
Ideal duration: 1 day
Most famous for being the district with the highest literacy rate in India, Serchhip in Mizoram is a place that can provide you a unique and vibrant experience.

This small town can give one the experience of a small village, the life, activities and colors that it sustains in the everyday. Some of the popular villages one can visit are the Neihloh and Buangpuri. The nature too plays a role in tourism with spots such as the Vantawng Khawhltha water fall. Other places here include the Chhingpui Thlan and Hriantrengna lung.

3:-Lunglei
Best Time: Oct-Jun
Ideal duration: 1 day
Literally meaning 'the bridge of rock', Lunglei is famous for its scenic beauty and natural setting. It is a small town, located around 170 km south of Aizawl whose name is derived from a bridge shaped rock found along Nghasih which is a tributary of the river Tlawng. Lunglei is an ideal offbeat destination for those who love natural sightseeing and adventure activities bundled into one. Trekking, bird watching and camping are among the popular activities opted by tourists coming to visit Lunglei.

Lunglei is a biodiverse region, home to Thorangtlang Wildlife Sanctuary and Saza Wildlife Sanctuary. While Saza Wildlife Sanctuary is famous for hosting migratory and endemic bird species, Thorangtlang Wildlife Sanctuary is home to several animal species such as leopards, tigers, porcupines and leaf monkeys among many. Visiting the Lunglei Rock Bridge at the Nghasih stream is another popular activity while here. For those looking to learn about the culture and traditions of the region, the Saikuti Hall is a must-visit.

4:-Champhai
Best Time: Oct-Jun

Ideal duration: 1 day
The town of Champhai on the eastern border of Mizoram close to the Indo-Myanmar border is the administrative headquarters of the Champhai district. It is located at a distance of 188 Kms from the capital of Aizawl and is strategically and commercially important for the state of Mizoram as well as for India. Champhai and its surrounding regions are primarily known for their natural beauty and vast valleys of rice fields. It is known as the 'Rice Bowl of Mizoram' due to being a major region of rice cultivation. Also, its vibrant seasonal orchids lend it a certain romanticism and aesthetic appeal.

Champhai has a number of tourist attractions mostly including natural settings. These include a cave called the Kungawrhi Puk, a river called Tiau Lui, Lianchhiari Lunglen Tlang and a few more. Rih Dil Lake is another famous natural attraction known to Champhai and the state of Mizoram. Adventure enthusiast can indulge in some trekking at the Thasiama Seno Neihna which is about 83 Kms south of Champhai.

5:-Mamit
Best Time: Nov-Mar
Ideal duration: 1 day
The Mamit district is the fourth largest district of the state of Mizoram. The town of Mamit, the administrative headquarters of the district, is located around 95 kms from Aizawl to the west. Known for its exquisite scenic locales and magnificence, don't miss out to add this place in your itinerary in Mizoram. The Dampa Tiger Reserve, among the famous natural protected regions of India, is a popular tourist attraction here. Adventure enthusiasts will also love visiting the longest cave network of Mizoram in Pukzing. Oranges are a major produce from this district, earning it the nickname, the 'Orange Garden of Mizoram'.

The town of Mamit and the district is primarily an agricultural hub of the state of Mizoram. Culturally, this region is quite vibrant, with several festivals being celebrated with pomp and vigour throughout the year. While the traditional festivals of Christmas and New Year are at the forefront of the yearly festivities, the more ethnic festivals of Chapchar Kut and Mim Kut, in celebration of the yearly agricultural harvests are also very significant here.




