1:-Agartala
Best Time: Throughout the year
Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Agartala is not just all flowers and valleys but also has a cultural richness with the diversity of people that stay here along with the historical and religious monuments. The capital of Tripura manages to create its culture and personality out of the coming together of stories of all those who reside here and give it a hue of their own culture. The most developed city in the state, it is still a far cry from the metros and hence maintains the best of both worlds.


2:-Kailashahar
Best Time: Oct-Jun 
Ideal duration: 1 day
It is a town which gets a major part of it identity from a royal and significant past, the tints of which can still be seen around the town. Kailashahar is not only famous for its temples but is also as a popular trekking destination. The 16 tea estates are also a must see. The other attractions of the area includeUnakoti, Rangauti, 14 Deities Temple and more.

3:-Unakoti
Best Time: Oct-Apr 
Ideal duration: 1 day
Unakoti is where India's heritage stores its carvings and sculptures of gods and goddesses. For such a storehouse of religious and spiritual importance, it is only justified that the place also be the house to lush green flora and full of natural beauty. Many of the rock carvings here depict the life of Lord Shiva as well as other instances from the Hindu Mythology. Sculptures of the Nandi Bull, Lord Ram , Lord Ganesha , Lord Hanuman and Lord Ganpati can also be seen here Unakoti also makes a good place for hiking, trekking and other activities given the terrain and the natural offerings of the

4:-Bison (Rajbari) National Park
Timings : 10:00 AM to 5:00 PM; Friday - Holiday
Time Required : 3-4 hours
Situated in the Trishna Wildlife Sanctuary, the Rajbari National Park is one of India’s well-known National Parks. It is located at Tripura, India. The park is spread over a whopping 31.63 square kilometres. Visiting this park would prove to be a visual treat to its visitors.

5:-Rudrasagar Lake
Time Required : 1 - 2 hrs
Located in the Melaghar block in Sipahijala district of Tripura, Rudrasagar is a picturesque lake that has lately been recognised as one of the wetlands of national importance for the conservation of resources and their sustainable use, by the Government of India’s Ministry of Environment and Forest. Also known as Rudijala, three rivers named Noacherra, Kemrali Cherra and Durlavnaraya form the lake. Boasting of utter serenity and tranquility, the lake is a popular tourist spot in the region. The highlight of the lake is also the magnificent Neermahal which is situated at the north-east bank of the lake. Built in 1930, the palace exudes timeless charm.

6:-Ambassa
Time Required : 1 day
Located in the youngest district in the state of Tripura in Dhalai, Ambassa is a quiet little town mainly popular for its several temples and pleasant surroundings. Initially a hilly area, which was covered in dense woods, the forests were cleared to create the district only recently in 1995. Boasting of picturesque surroundings and ample of natural resources, the town has not only become a popular tourist spot but also has earned fame for being extremely resourceful. Another important thing about Ambassa is that it is inhabited by tribes which mainly live on houses built on platforms. Other residents have mostly migrated from India and Bangladesh.


7:-Neermahal
Timings : 9:00 AM-5:00 PM
Time Required : 1 hour
Entry Fee : Adults- INR 5
Children below 5 years- INR 3
Still Camera- INR 10
The Lake Palace of Tripura' or the Neermahal is the largest palace of its kind in the entire Indian Subcontinent. This architectural beauty rightly derives its name from its location, i.e. the middle of Rudrasagar Lake. It is one of the two water palaces that our country has. The former royal palace is an outcome of King Bir Bikram Kishore Manikya Bahadur's great perspective. It was the summer palace for the king and his family. Even today, its highly ornated structure showcases the glorious past. 

The evenings at Neermahal are spent watching the light and sound show. It makes people familiar with the cultural heritage of the place and its owners. The historicity comes with a tint of adventure too. Yes, the palace premises also include some water sports activities. This makes it a perfect combination of antiquity and thrill. Mo
