1:-Kolkata
Best Time: Oct-Mar
Ideal duration: 2-4 days
Kolkata, India's second biggest city, is a perpetually ongoing festival of human existence, concurrently luxurious and squalid, refined and frantic, pointedly futuristic, while beautifully in decay. A vibrant 350-year-old metropolis located on India's Eastern Coast, the capital of West Bengal thrives on contradictions and imposing spectacles; nothing is commonplace in this city. Famously known as the City of Joy, Kolkata is, in every sense, the artistic, cultural and intellectual capital of the country. Kolkata's streets are vivid, hectic, chaotic, and yet, brimming with life and creativity. Driven by the indomitable spirit of the self-made middle class, the city has created a beautiful juxtaposition of the old colonial-era charm with the nascent upcoming hipster culture that thrives amongst the city's millennial residents.

2:-Darjeeling
Best Time: February-March, September-
Ideal duration: 2-3 days
Darjeeling, the former summer capital of India under the British Raj, has evolved into one of India's most sought-after hill stations. This picturesque hill destination in West Bengal is ideal for a romantic honeymoon. Darjeeling, nestled among acres of tea estates, is 2,050 metres above sea level and thus has a cool climate all year.


3:-Sundarbans
Best Time: Sep-Mar

Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Known for hosting the biggest mangrove forests in the world, Sundarbans National Park is located around 110 Km south of Kolkata in West Bengal, India. It is also a Tiger Reserve and a Biosphere Reserve famous for being the home of the Royal Bengal tigers, among others, including roaring rivers and beautiful estuaries. Sundarbans National Park is a part of the Sundarban delta, which extends into Bangladesh. It is a UNESCO world heritage site with a large variety of birds and animal species, including reptiles such as salt-water crocodiles.

4:-Siliguri
Best Time: Throughout the year

Ideal duration: 1 day
Situated in the Jalpaiguri and Siliguri districts of West Bengal, Siliguri is a city known as the Gateway to North-East India. Located 560 kms from Kolkata to the north, Siliguri is the twin city of Jalpaiguri and the third largest in West Bengal. Siliguri has its own international airport which serves mainly as a base for tourists to camp in before moving out to explore nearby tourist attractions such as Kalimpong, Darjeeling, Gangtok and Bhutan. However, Siliguri itself is a perfectly good holiday destination, with sufficient things to see and do. Over the years, Siliguri has become famous for its products such as tea and timber and also an important commercial and connecting hub.

5:-Digha
Best Time: Jul-Mar 
Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Beach town situated on the shores of Bay of Bengal, Digha is a popular tourist destination known for its untouched beaches and scenic views, especially among people in West Bengal.

Digha is a one-stop destination for families looking forward to spend a pleasurable weekend. One of the best features of this hamlet is its varied and diverse tourist attraction spots. Known for its magnificent beaches, religious temples and high-tech research centers and museums, this most popular sea resort of West Bengal has a lot to offer for people of all age groups. Digha's sceneries can also offer you the pleasure experienced in witnessing areas that have minimal human impact and are relatively untouched.

6:-Kalimpong
Best Time: Mar-Jun, Sep-Dec
Ideal duration: 2-3 days
Kalimpong is a virgin hill station in West Bengal renowned for its panoramic valley views, Buddhists monasteries and churches and Tibetan handicrafts etc.

50 minutes east ofÊDarjeeling, Kalimpong is a hill station on the foothills of Shivalik ranges at an altitude of 1250 m overlooking the Teesta Valley. People say that the area was ruled by Bhutanese kings and was a forward post of the Bhutanese Army till the 19th century. Dotted with ancient Buddhist monasteries, centuries old churches and exquisite revered temples Kalimpong marks the Bhutanese history till it was wrested by British rulers. The Jang Dong Palriffo Brang (Monastery), Thongsa Gompa (Bhutanese Monastery) are some famous places to visit. Also make sure to visit the flower markets famous for its orchids and lovely bright flowers.

7:-Kurseong
Best Time: Apr-May, Aug-Oct
Ideal duration: 1-2 days
Also known as the 'Land of White Orchids', Kurseong is a hill station located close to Darjeeling famous for its waterfalls, temples and Buddhist gompas apart from the excellent view that the place provides.

Perched on the Siliguri-Darjeeling highway, Kurseong is a quiet hill station. Kurseong enjoys milder and pleasant weather most times of the year. During the monsoon season the rain-gods are more than generous as the town receives non-stop rains for days. The rains are in fact much needed for the flora and fauna of the area. Kurseong, the 'Land of White Orchids', gets its name from the flowers found in abundance on its hill-slopes. It's difficult not to fall in love with the view of tea plantations, lush green forests in the panoramic setting of snow-clad mountains. At sunset, you can see an amalgamation of the most beautiful colors in the sky. You can see the British remnants in the form of churches and school in the town. This small hill-town makes for a great stopover for tourists looking for a more peaceful alternative to Darjeeling.

8:-Durgapur
Best Time: Nov-Mar
Ideal duration: 1 day
Often touted as the Steel Capital of East India, Durgapur is the embodiment of the quintessential Bengali town. With a total population of less than half a million, Durgapur is in the Burdwan District of West Bengal, on the bank of the Damodar River. It is about 170 kms from the city of Kolkata.

Durgapur is the perfect amalgamation of a metro's energy and a small town's charm. The place is brimming with temples, old-world markets, parks and even a barrage. Located in the heart of West Bengal, this industrial town has more to offer than just authentic food and a few tourist spots. If you are looking for an authentic Indian getaway, Durgapur is the place to be

9:-Haldia
Best Time: Oct-Mar 
Ideal duration: 1 day
Often considered as a mere river port assisting Kolkata, Haldia has more to offer to India than just foreign trade. With it's rich collection of heritage locations, temples and local markets, Haldia is geared upto be the next major tourist hub of West Bengal.

From marine drives to palaces, Haldia is one of those rare places that combine the beauty of monuments with the bounty of nature. Explore this pristine land of legends, yet to be touched by tourist rush and commercialization.

10:-Bankura
Best Time: Oct-Mar
Ideal duration: 1 day
With much historical significance, Bankura is a town famous for its hills and temples and a treat for adventure sports enthusiasts such as trekkers and hikers.

Bankura has a significant history and is a temple city in West Bengal. The areas history intermingles with spirituality to create a simple, and yet unique tourist experience. Bankura is also famous for its terracotta temples which attracts tourists from world over. Siddheswara temple, Biharinath Hill, Koko hill, Susunia Hill and many more constitute the list of places one can visit in Bankura

11:-Cooch Behar
Best Time: Throughout the year

Ideal duration: 1 day
Cooch Behar, once the province of Koch dynasty, is a small planned town in North West Bengal Coch Behar makes up as a good option for weekend getaways for the eco-tourists along with those with an inclination towards history and archaeology.

Falling under the Jalpaiguri division of West Bengal, Cooch Behar is a district in the North East location of the state bounded by Jalpaiguri, Assam and Indo Bangladesh border to the south and west. Cooch Behar is a closely knit small town with happy people who are proud of the cultural richness and heritage of their city.


